hey this is pressure Locker five people
are seated randomly around a circular
table what is the probability two people
will be seated next to each other we can
make the question a little bit more
precise by labeling the people as ABCD
and E and asking about the probability
that a and B will be seated next to each
other this is part one of the question
the next part is to ask for the same
probability if the thigh people are
seated randomly in a row the next part
is to generalize what is the probability
if there are n people seated randomly
solve for both cases of seating around a
circular table and in a row this problem
has been asked to programmers and during
other technical jobs as an interview
question can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution well
first consider seating around a circular
table with five people there a couple of
ways we'll solve this the first method
is will consider equally likely seats we
have a circular table with five
different seats person a will be in some
seat without loss of generality we can
make it the seat at the top of the
diagram person B can be in any of the
four remaining seats and it's equally
likely that B will be in any of these
seats all these seats exactly two of
them will be adjacent to a therefore the
probability that a and B will be seated
adjacent is two divided by four which
equals one-half and that's 50% there's
another way you could solve the problem
by Counting pairs of seats
when there are five seats there are 5
choose 2 which equals 10 pairs of seats
out of these there are 5 pairs that are
adjacent each seat can be paired
adjacent ly to the one that's right next
to it going clockwise therefore the
probability that a and B will be
adjacent will be 5/10 which also equals
1/2 and that's also 50%
let's now solve the problem of feeding
in a row one way to solve this is to use
conditional probability there are two
different ways that a could be seeded
person a could be in the first or the
last seat these are two out of five
possible seats so if person a is in the
first seat for example then person D
will be adjacent for exactly one of the
four remaining seats similarly a person
is at the end seat person B has to be
right next to it that's one out of the
four remaining seats now there's another
case that person a could be in a middle
seat so in this five person case there
are three middle seats in any of these
seats person B can be adjacent to B
either on the left side or the right
side there are two places that person B
could be and could be adjacent so if we
put these cases together the probability
is 2 over 5 times 1 over 4 plus 3 over 5
times 2 over 4 and that simplifies to be
2/5 which is 40% another way is that we
could count the pairs of seats there are
5 choose 2 which is 10 pairs of seats
now how many of these are adjacent well
there are 4 pairs of adjacent seats
because the first the second the third
and the fourth seats could be paired
with the seat after it
therefore there are 4 out of 10
possibilities which also equals 40%
now let's generalize for envy
people we could solve these in the same
ways let's consider the method of
equally likely seat person a will be at
some seat and now person B can be any of
the N minus 1 remaining seats and it's
equally likely that B will be at any of
these n minus 1 remaining seats out of
them exactly 2 will be adjacent the seat
to the left and the seat to the right of
person a therefore there will be exactly
2 divided by n minus 1 possible ways
that a and B could be next to each other
so the probability is 2 over n minus 1
we can also do the same thing by
counting the pairs of seats there are n
choose 2 which equals n times n minus 1
over 2 pairs of seats out of these there
are n pairs of adjacent seats we start
from the top of this diagram and go
clockwise
each seat can be paired with the one
right after it we end up counting n
different pairs of adjacent seats so we
take n divided by n choose 2 this also
simplifies to be 2 divided by n minus 1
let's now solve the case seating in a
row where you have n people we can again
solve it by conditional probability one
case is that a is either in the first
seat or the last seat so these will be 2
out of the N possible seats so in the
first seat person D could be adjacent
for only 1 out of the N minus 1
remaining seats would have to be just
right after or if a was at the very end
B would have to be just before now
there's also the other case that a could
be in a middle seat there are n minus 2
out of the total n middle seats in any
of these middle seats B could either be
on the left side or the right side so
there will be 2 out of n minus 1
possible ways that B could be adjacent
if we combine these cases we end up with
the following equation 2 over N times 1
over N
one plus n minus 2 over n times 2 over n
minus 1 if you work through the algebra
this simplifies to be 2 over n and
that's the probability we also do the
same thing by counting pairs of seeds
there n choose 2 pairs of seeds and now
how many adjacent seats are there well
they're n minus 1 each seat can be
paired with the seat to its right so
starting from the first seat on the Left
we can count all the way up to n minus 1
that very last seat
has no seat to its right therefore we
take n minus 1 and divide it by n choose
2 and that also simplifies to be 2 over
n did you figure out these problems
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blogs mind
your decisions that you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch you on social media at pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description